---
title: 'Simplifying Make'
date: 2021-09-02
permalink: /posts/make/
tags:
  - C++
  - make
  - Makefile
---

This is an attempt at simplifying **make**, I hope it can help anyone who struggling with the basics.

## Simplifying the Makefile

The simplest form for a Makefile is:
```make
TARGET: DEPENDENCIES
	COMMAND(S)
```

So, if you want to do some command or commands, give it a name (TARGET) and if the commands are dependent upon anything, list those dependencies.
For example, if I wanted to compile a simple **main.cpp** file the command would be `g++ main.cpp`.
I can name that command whatever I want, possibly snuka (my dog's name).
The main file in this example doesn't require files other than itself, so the dependency list would simply be itself.

```make
snuka: main.cpp
	g++ main.cpp
```

If that main file used a class I developed, such as ***Dog***, defined in **dog.cpp** and **dog.hpp**, then my main program will depend on that class.
Classes are most easily dealt with when compiled into object files such as **dog.o**.
Make will create the **dog.o** file automatically (or at least try to), if I need it.
So now my rule might need to be:
```make
snuka: main.cpp dog.o
	g++ main.cpp dog.o
```

If I wanted to name the executable snuka, rather than a.out (the default), the rule would be:
```make
snuka: main.cpp dog.o
	g++ main.cpp dog.o -o snuka
```

Thus, to build an executable file named **snuka**, which has a `main` function in **main.cpp** and uses code from the `Dog` class, I'd just need to run `make snuka`.


### Variables
There are a couple of variables that are very helpful in a Makefile.
Firstly, at the top of a Makefile, it's always useful to define `CXX` and `CXXFLAGS`.
These are the compiler command (`CXX`) and the flags (`CXXFLAGS`) to the compiler that will be used by **make** for all _implicit_ rules.
Above, we didn't create a rule for the **dog.o** file.
The **make** program _guessed_ how to create the .o file.
It's generally pretty good at doing that when a .hpp and .cpp file exist with the same name.
It will use the `CXX` compile command and pass the `CXXFLAGS` when it does that.
If you didn't define those then it will use system defaults.

If you just want to make a rule a bit cleaner and more portable, you can use automatic variables in your rules.
The dollar sign (`$`) is used to de-reference variables, i.e. get their values, and you can think of them as a replacement.
If you define `CXXFLAGS = -std=c++17 -Wall`, then whenever you put `$(CXXFLAGS)` in your Makefile, it'll be replaced by `-std=c++17 -Wall` when you run **make**.

- `$@` - this _at_ variable refers to the name of the rule. Above, `$@` would be **snuka**.
- `$^` - this can be used to avoid retyping all of the dependencies. It will be replaced by the entire list.

So, with those variables available, our **snuka** rule could be written as:
```make
snuka: main.cpp dog.o
	g++ $^ -o $@
```
or if we want to use the specific flags and compiler,
```make
snuka: main.cpp dog.o
	$(CXX) $(CXXFLAGS) $^ -o $@
```

It might look a bit scary at first, but it's a very simple syntax to get used to after you play with it a bit.

## Questions?
I hope this helps clear some things up.
If you have questions, ask Google or StackOverflow.
If you are my student, come on by my office hours or message me in Discord and we'll get it figured out together.
